			      Licensing Agreement

				    between

the Technische Universität München, Arcisstraße 21, 80333 München, represented
by the Chair for Informatics V, hereafter referred to as licenser, and the user
(the person obtaining access to the software and in particular the person,
company or institution in possession of the software on their storage devices),
hereafter referred to as licensee, concerning the right to use the software
package "HiVis" including the visualization API "VisAPI" and including all
manuals, sourcecode, development documents and development support (as, e.g.,
makefiles, rudimentary files for linking up to multimedia tools, etc.) as well
as their compiled and executable form, hereafter referred to as software.


			      Object of Agreement

The licenser gives the licensee the not further transferable right of the
temporarily unrestricted use of the software. There is no license fee.


				     Copies

The licensee has the right to copy the software on his storage devices, both for
purposes of installation and backup.


			     Property and Copyright

  1. The licensee must inform the licenser about any modifications and
extensions of the software. Those modifications and extensions must not be
distributed without a written authorization of the licenser.

  2. The licenser is the owner of all rights of the software, including
modifications or extensions made by the licensee.

  3. The licensee agrees to publish scientific results obtained with the help of
the software only with an appropriate citation of the licenser.


			    Licensing and Patenting

  1. The licensee declares to report every planned licensing or patenting of
enhancements of the software or developments based on the software to the
licenser. If the license or patent to be issued does influence current or future
licensing or patenting of the licenser, the licenser must be explicitly informed
of this in writing and must issue an explicit and written permission to the
licensee.

  2. For enhancements and developments of the licensee containing parts of the
source code or compiled code of the software or using functionality of the
software, the following must be respected: Exercising such a license issued by
the licensee by a third party requires the third party to acquire or hold a
valid license for the software.


		  Duties and Responsibilities of the Licensee

  1. It is not permitted to sell the software or parts of it. This holds also
for any other commercial exploitation.

  2. These stipulations hold also for any modifications or extensions of the
software made by the licensee.

  3. If the licensee violates the above agreements summarized in points 1 - 2,
the licenser reserves all rights to claim compensation from the licensee.


				   Liability

  1. The software is at an experimental stage. The licenser does not guarantee
that the software is free of errors.

  2. The licenser does not guarantee that the software complies with the special
requirements of the licensee.

  3. The licenser does not assume any liability.

  4. The licenser is not obliged to maintain or further develop the software.


			  Termination of the Agreement

  1. The licenser and the licensee have the right to terminate this agreement
with a period of notice of three months.

  2. After the termination of the agreement, the licensee has to remove all
copies of the software from his storage devices.


			     Additional Regulations

Modifications of this agreement require a written acknowledgement. This
agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with German law. The
court of jurisdiction is München.
